---
layout: styleguide
title: "CSS Styleguide"
---

## Table of Contents
* [Coding-style](#coding-style)
* [SCSS](#scss)
* [Comments](#comments)
* [Shorthand](#shorthand)

## <a id='coding-style'></a>Coding-style
* Use soft-tabs with a two space indent.
* Keep lines fewer than 80 characters.
* Never leave trailing whitespace.
* Avoid IDs in CSS.
* Do not restate default property & value combinations (for instance `display: block;` on block-level elements).
* Use US English for all naming. Name classes and variables in the locale of the language you are working with.

* Put spaces after `:` in property declarations.

```
# Bad
color:red;

# Good
color: red;
```


* Alphabetize your properties.

```
h1 {
  color: red;
  font-size: 2em;
  font-weight: 500;
  line-height: 1.5;
  margin: 1em 0;
}
```

* Avoid over-qualified selectors.

```
# Bad
div.promo {}

# Good
.promo {}
```


```
# Bad
ul.nav li a {}

# Good
.nav a {}
```

## <a id='scss'></a>SCSS
* Any `$variable` or `@mixin` that is used in more than one file should be put in `globals/`. Others should be put at the top of the file where they're used.
* As a rule of thumb, don't nest further than 3 levels deep. If you find yourself going further, think about reorganizing your rules (either the specificity needed, or the layout of the nesting).

## <a id='comments'></a>Comments
* Only comment where it is useful.
* Write comments like you’re talking to a rubber duck!
* Good comments take care of 99% of what you hand over and — more importantly —  take care of your documentation. Your code should be the documentation.
* CSS comments may be copied across to production. So be careful what you write.
* SCSS supports both comments that are preserved in the CSS output and comments that aren’t.
* In **SCSS** use `/* comment description */` if you want a comment to be included in the processed **CSS** file. Use `//` if you do not want the comment to be included in the **CSS** file.

```
# Bad
/* Let's simplify this line before release */

# Good
// Causing an overflow bug in Firefox 23.0.1. Discussion at github.com
```

## <a id='shorthand'></a>Shorthand
Shorthand should be used within reason and caution.

* Use shorthand (except when overriding styles) for background, border, font, list-style, margin, and padding values as much as possible.

```
# Bad
margin-top: 10px;
margin-right: 25px;
margin-bottom: 10px;
margin-left: 25px;

# Good
margin: 10px 25px;
```
